      

Contact Information
===================

The latest software releases, publications/papers regarding HTCondor and
other High-Throughput Computing research can be found at the official
web site for HTCondor at
`http://htcondor.org/ <http://htcondor.org/>`__.

In addition, there is an e-mail list at **htcondor-world@cs.wisc.edu**.
The HTCondor Team uses this e-mail list to announce new releases of
HTCondor and other major HTCondor-related news items. To subscribe or
unsubscribe from the the list, follow the instructions at
`http://htcondor.org/mail-lists/ <http://htcondor.org/mail-lists/>`__.
Because many of us receive too much e-mail as it is, you will be happy
to know that the HTCondor World e-mail list group is moderated, and only
major announcements of wide interest are distributed.

Our users support each other by belonging to an unmoderated mailing list
(**htcondor-users@cs.wisc.edu**) targeted at solving problems with
HTCondor. HTCondor team members attempt to monitor traffic to
htcondor-users, responding as they can. Follow the instructions at
`http://htcondor.org/mail-lists/ <http://htcondor.org/mail-lists/>`__.

Finally, you can reach the HTCondor Team directly. The HTCondor Team is
comprised of the developers and administrators of HTCondor at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison. HTCondor questions, comments, pleas for
help, and requests for commercial contract consultation or support are
all welcome; send Internet e-mail to
`htcondor-admin@cs.wisc.edu <mailto:htcondor-admin@cs.wisc.edu>`__.
Please include your name, organization, and telephone number in your
message. If you are having trouble with HTCondor, please help us
troubleshoot by including as much pertinent information as you can,
including snippets of HTCondor log files.

      
