      

High-Throughput Computing (HTC) and its Requirements
====================================================

For many research and engineering projects, the quality of the research
or the product is heavily dependent upon the quantity of computing
cycles available. It is not uncommon to find problems that require weeks
or months of computation to solve. Scientists and engineers engaged in
this sort of work need a computing environment that delivers large
amounts of computational power over a long period of time. Such an
environment is called a High-Throughput Computing (HTC) environment. In
contrast, High Performance Computing (HPC) environments deliver a
tremendous amount of compute power over a short period of time. HPC
environments are often measured in terms of FLoating point Operations
Per Second (FLOPS). A growing community is not concerned about
operations per second, but operations per month or per year. Their
problems are of a much larger scale. They are more interested in how
many jobs they can complete over a long period of time instead of how
fast an individual job can complete.

The key to HTC is to efficiently harness the use of all available
resources. Years ago, the engineering and scientific community relied on
a large, centralized mainframe or a supercomputer to do computational
work. A large number of individuals and groups needed to pool their
financial resources to afford such a machine. Users had to wait for
their turn on the mainframe, and they had a limited amount of time
allocated. While this environment was inconvenient for users, the
utilization of the mainframe was high; it was busy nearly all the time.

As computers became smaller, faster, and cheaper, users moved away from
centralized mainframes and purchased personal desktop workstations and
PCs. An individual or small group could afford a computing resource that
was available whenever they wanted it. The personal computer is slower
than the large centralized machine, but it provides exclusive access.
Now, instead of one giant computer for a large institution, there may be
hundreds or thousands of personal computers. This is an environment of
distributed ownership, where individuals throughout an organization own
their own resources. The total computational power of the institution as
a whole may rise dramatically as the result of such a change, but
because of distributed ownership, individuals have not been able to
capitalize on the institutional growth of computing power. And, while
distributed ownership is more convenient for the users, the utilization
of the computing power is lower. Many personal desktop machines sit idle
for very long periods of time while their owners are busy doing other
things (such as being away at lunch, in meetings, or at home sleeping).

      
