      

User Priorities and Negotiation
===============================

HTCondor uses priorities to determine machine allocation for jobs. This
section details the priorities and the allocation of machines
(negotiation).

For accounting purposes, each user is identified by
username@uid\_domain. Each user is assigned a priority value even if
submitting jobs from different machines in the same domain, or even if
submitting from multiple machines in the different domains.

The numerical priority value assigned to a user is inversely related to
the goodness of the priority. A user with a numerical priority of 5 gets
more resources than a user with a numerical priority of 50. There are
two priority values assigned to HTCondor users:

-  Real User Priority (RUP), which measures resource usage of the user.
-  Effective User Priority (EUP), which determines the number of
   resources the user can get.

This section describes these two priorities and how they affect resource
allocations in HTCondor. Documentation on configuring and controlling
priorities may be found in
section \ `3.5.15 <ConfigurationMacros.html#x33-2020003.5.15>`__.

Real User Priority (RUP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A user’s RUP measures the resource usage of the user through time. Every
user begins with a RUP of one half (0.5), and at steady state, the RUP
of a user equilibrates to the number of resources used by that user.
Therefore, if a specific user continuously uses exactly ten resources
for a long period of time, the RUP of that user stabilizes at ten.

However, if the user decreases the number of resources used, the RUP
gets better. The rate at which the priority value decays can be set by
the macro PRIORITY\_HALFLIFE , a time period defined in seconds.
Intuitively, if the PRIORITY\_HALFLIFE in a pool is set to 86400 (one
day), and if a user whose RUP was 10 has no running jobs, that user’s
RUP would be 5 one day later, 2.5 two days later, and so on.

Effective User Priority (EUP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The effective user priority (EUP) of a user is used to determine how
many resources that user may receive. The EUP is linearly related to the
RUP by a priority factor which may be defined on a per-user basis.
Unless otherwise configured, an initial priority factor for all users as
they first submit jobs is set by the configuration variable
DEFAULT\_PRIO\_FACTOR , and defaults to the value 1000.0. If desired,
the priority factors of specific users can be increased using
*condor\_userprio*, so that some are served preferentially.

The number of resources that a user may receive is inversely related to
the ratio between the EUPs of submitting users. Therefore user A with
EUP=5 will receive twice as many resources as user B with EUP=10 and
four times as many resources as user C with EUP=20. However, if A does
not use the full number of resources that A may be given, the available
resources are repartitioned and distributed among remaining users
according to the inverse ratio rule.

HTCondor supplies mechanisms to directly support two policies in which
EUP may be useful:

 Nice users
    A job may be submitted with the submit command **nice\_user** set to
    True. This nice user job will have its RUP boosted by the
    NICE\_USER\_PRIO\_FACTOR priority factor specified in the
    configuration, leading to a very large EUP. This corresponds to a
    low priority for resources, therefore using resources not used by
    other HTCondor users.
 Remote Users
    HTCondor’s flocking feature (see
    section \ `5.2 <ConnectingHTCondorPoolswithFlocking.html#x55-4510005.2>`__)
    allows jobs to run in a pool other than the local one. In addition,
    the submit-only feature allows a user to submit jobs to another
    pool. In such situations, submitters from other domains can submit
    to the local pool. It may be desirable to have HTCondor treat local
    users preferentially over these remote users. If configured,
    HTCondor will boost the RUPs of remote users by REMOTE\_PRIO\_FACTOR
    specified in the configuration, thereby lowering their priority for
    resources.

The priority boost factors for individual users can be set with the
**setfactor** option of *condor\_userprio*. Details may be found in the
*condor\_userprio* manual page on
page \ `2298 <Condoruserprio.html#x160-116800012>`__.

Priorities in Negotiation and Preemption
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Priorities are used to ensure that users get their fair share of
resources. The priority values are used at allocation time, meaning
during negotiation and matchmaking. Therefore, there are ClassAd
attributes that take on defined values only during negotiation, making
them ephemeral. In addition to allocation, HTCondor may preempt a
machine claim and reallocate it when conditions change.

Too many preemptions lead to thrashing, a condition in which negotiation
for a machine identifies a new job with a better priority most every
cycle. Each job is, in turn, preempted, and no job finishes. To avoid
this situation, the PREEMPTION\_REQUIREMENTS configuration variable is
defined for and used only by the *condor\_negotiator* daemon to specify
the conditions that must be met for a preemption to occur. When
preemption is enabled, it is usually defined to deny preemption if a
current running job has been running for a relatively short period of
time. This effectively limits the number of preemptions per resource per
time interval. Note that PREEMPTION\_REQUIREMENTS only applies to
preemptions due to user priority. It does not have any effect if the
machine’s RANK expression prefers a different job, or if the machine’s
policy causes the job to vacate due to other activity on the machine.
See section
`3.7.1 <PolicyConfigurationforExecuteHostsandforSubmitHosts.html#x35-2520003.7.1>`__
for the current default policy on preemption.

The following ephemeral attributes may be used within policy
definitions. Care should be taken when using these attributes, due to
their ephemeral nature; they are not always defined, so the usage of an
expression to check if defined such as

::

      (RemoteUserPrio =?= UNDEFINED)

is likely necessary.

Within these attributes, those with names that contain the string
Submitter refer to characteristics about the candidate job’s user; those
with names that contain the string Remote refer to characteristics about
the user currently using the resource. Further, those with names that
end with the string ResourcesInUse have values that may change within
the time period associated with a single negotiation cycle. Therefore,
the configuration variables PREEMPTION\_REQUIREMENTS\_STABLE and and
PREEMPTION\_RANK\_STABLE exist to inform the *condor\_negotiator* daemon
that values may change. See
section \ `3.5.15 <ConfigurationMacros.html#x33-2020003.5.15>`__ on
page \ `741 <ConfigurationMacros.html#x33-2020003.5.15>`__ for
definitions of these configuration variables.

 SubmitterUserPrio:
    A floating point value representing the user priority of the
    candidate job.
 SubmitterUserResourcesInUse:
    The integer number of slots currently utilized by the user
    submitting the candidate job.
 RemoteUserPrio:
    A floating point value representing the user priority of the job
    currently running on the machine. This version of the attribute,
    with no slot represented in the attribute name, refers to the
    current slot being evaluated.
 Slot<N>\_RemoteUserPrio:
    A floating point value representing the user priority of the job
    currently running on the particular slot represented by <N> on the
    machine.
 RemoteUserResourcesInUse:
    The integer number of slots currently utilized by the user of the
    job currently running on the machine.
 SubmitterGroupResourcesInUse:
    If the owner of the candidate job is a member of a valid accounting
    group, with a defined group quota, then this attribute is the
    integer number of slots currently utilized by the group.
 SubmitterGroup:
    The accounting group name of the requesting submitter.
 SubmitterGroupQuota:
    If the owner of the candidate job is a member of a valid accounting
    group, with a defined group quota, then this attribute is the
    integer number of slots defined as the group’s quota.
 RemoteGroupResourcesInUse:
    If the owner of the currently running job is a member of a valid
    accounting group, with a defined group quota, then this attribute is
    the integer number of slots currently utilized by the group.
 RemoteGroup:
    The accounting group name of the owner of the currently running job.
 RemoteGroupQuota:
    If the owner of the currently running job is a member of a valid
    accounting group, with a defined group quota, then this attribute is
    the integer number of slots defined as the group’s quota.
 SubmitterNegotiatingGroup:
    The accounting group name that the candidate job is negotiating
    under.
 RemoteNegotiatingGroup:
    The accounting group name that the currently running job negotiated
    under.
 SubmitterAutoregroup:
    Boolean attribute is True if candidate job is negotiated via
    autoregoup.
 RemoteAutoregroup:
    Boolean attribute is True if currently running job negotiated via
    autoregoup.

Priority Calculation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section may be skipped if the reader so feels, but for the curious,
here is HTCondor’s priority calculation algorithm.

The RUP of a user u at time t, π\ :sub:`r`\ (u,t), is calculated every
time interval δt using the formula

|πr(u,t) = β × πr(u,t- δt)+ (1- β)× ρ(u,t) |

where ρ(u,t) is the number of resources used by user u at time t, and β
= 0.5\ :sup:`δt∕h`. h is the half life period set by PRIORITY\_HALFLIFE
.

The EUP of user u at time t, π\ :sub:`e`\ (u,t) is calculated by

|π (u,t) = π (u,t)× f(u,t) e r |

where f(u,t) is the priority boost factor for user u at time t.

As mentioned previously, the RUP calculation is designed so that at
steady state, each user’s RUP stabilizes at the number of resources used
by that user. The definition of β ensures that the calculation of
π\ :sub:`r`\ (u,t) can be calculated over non-uniform time intervals δt
without affecting the calculation. The time interval δt varies due to
events internal to the system, but HTCondor guarantees that unless the
central manager machine is down, no matches will be unaccounted for due
to this variance.

Negotiation
^^^^^^^^^^^

Negotiation is the method HTCondor undergoes periodically to match
queued jobs with resources capable of running jobs. The
*condor\_negotiator* daemon is responsible for negotiation.

During a negotiation cycle, the *condor\_negotiator* daemon accomplishes
the following ordered list of items.

#. Build a list of all possible resources, regardless of the state of
   those resources.
#. Obtain a list of all job submitters (for the entire pool).
#. Sort the list of all job submitters based on EUP (see section
    `3.6.2 <#x34-2340003.6.2>`__ for an explanation of EUP). The
   submitter with the best priority is first within the sorted list.
#. Iterate until there are either no more resources to match, or no more
   jobs to match.

       For each submitter (in EUP order):

           For each submitter, get each job. Since jobs may be submitted
           from more than one machine (hence to more than one
           *condor\_schedd* daemon), here is a further definition of the
           ordering of these jobs. With jobs from a single
           *condor\_schedd* daemon, jobs are typically returned in job
           priority order. When more than one *condor\_schedd* daemon is
           involved, they are contacted in an undefined order. All jobs
           from a single *condor\_schedd* daemon are considered before
           moving on to the next. For each job:

           -  For each machine in the pool that can execute jobs:

              #. If machine.requirements evaluates to False or
                 job.requirements evaluates to False, skip this machine
              #. If the machine is in the Claimed state, but not running
                 a job, skip this machine.
              #. If this machine is not running a job, add it to the
                 potential match list by reason of No Preemption.
              #. If the machine is running a job

                 -  If the machine.RANK on this job is better than the
                    running job, add this machine to the potential match
                    list by reason of Rank.
                 -  If the EUP of this job is better than the EUP of the
                    currently running job, and PREEMPTION\_REQUIREMENTS
                    is True, and the machine.RANK on this job is not
                    worse than the currently running job, add this
                    machine to the potential match list by reason of
                    Priority.

           -  Of machines in the potential match list, sort by
              NEGOTIATOR\_PRE\_JOB\_RANK, job.RANK,
              NEGOTIATOR\_POST\_JOB\_RANK, Reason for claim (No
              Preemption, then Rank, then Priority), PREEMPTION\_RANK
           -  The job is assigned to the top machine on the potential
              match list. The machine is removed from the list of
              resources to match (on this negotiation cycle).

The *condor\_negotiator* asks the *condor\_schedd* for the "next job"
from a given submitter/user. Typically, the *condor\_schedd* returns
jobs in the order of job priority. If priorities are the same, job
submission time is used; older jobs go first. If a cluster has multiple
procs in it and one of the jobs cannot be matched, the *condor\_schedd*
will not return any more jobs in that cluster on that negotiation pass.
This is an optimization based on the theory that the cluster jobs are
similar. The configuration variable NEGOTIATE\_ALL\_JOBS\_IN\_CLUSTER
disables the cluster-skipping optimization. Use of the configuration
variable SIGNIFICANT\_ATTRIBUTES will change the definition of what the
*condor\_schedd* considers a cluster from the default definition of all
jobs that share the same ClusterId.

The Layperson’s Description of the Pie Spin and Pie Slice
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

HTCondor schedules in a variety of ways. First, it takes all users who
have submitted jobs and calculates their priority. Then, it totals the
number of resources available at the moment, and using the ratios of the
user priorities, it calculates the number of machines each user could
get. This is their pie slice.

The HTCondor matchmaker goes in user priority order, contacts each user,
and asks for job information. The *condor\_schedd* daemon (on behalf of
a user) tells the matchmaker about a job, and the matchmaker looks at
available resources to create a list of resources that match the
requirements expression. With the list of resources that match, it sorts
them according to the rank expressions within ClassAds. If a machine
prefers a job, the job is assigned to that machine, potentially
preempting a job that might already be running on that machine.
Otherwise, give the machine to the job that the job ranks highest. If
the machine ranked highest is already running a job, we may preempt
running job for the new job. When preemption is enabled, a reasonable
policy states that the user must have a 20% better priority in order for
preemption to succeed. If the job has no preferences as to what sort of
machine it gets, matchmaking gives it the first idle resource to meet
its requirements.

This matchmaking cycle continues until the user has received all of the
machines in their pie slice. The matchmaker then contacts the next
highest priority user and offers that user their pie slice worth of
machines. After contacting all users, the cycle is repeated with any
still available resources and recomputed pie slices. The matchmaker
continues spinning the pie until it runs out of machines or all the
*condor\_schedd* daemons say they have no more jobs.

Group Accounting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, HTCondor does all accounting on a per-user basis, and this
accounting is primarily used to compute priorities for HTCondor’s
fair-share scheduling algorithms. However, accounting can also be done
on a per-group basis. Multiple users can all submit jobs into the same
accounting group, and all jobs with the same accounting group will be
treated with the same priority. Jobs that do not specify an accounting
group have all accounting and priority based on the user, which may be
identified by the job ClassAd attribute Owner. Jobs that do specify an
accounting group have all accounting and priority based on the specified
accounting group. Therefore, accounting based on groups only works when
the jobs correctly identify their group membership.

The preferred method for having a job associate itself with an
accounting group adds a command to the submit description file that
specifies the group name:

::

      accounting_group = group_physics

This command causes the job ClassAd attribute AcctGroup to be set with
this group name.

If the user name of the job submitter should be other than the Owner job
ClassAd attribute, an additional command specifies the user name:

::

      accounting_group_user = albert

This command causes the job ClassAd attribute AcctGroupUser to be set
with this user name.

The previous method for defining accounting groups is no longer
recommended. It inserted the job ClassAd attribute AccountingGroup by
setting it in the submit description file using the syntax in this
example:

::

    +AccountingGroup = "group_physics.albert"

In this previous method for defining accounting groups, the
AccountingGroup attribute is a string, and it therefore must be enclosed
in double quote marks.

Much of the reason that the previous method for defining accounting
groups is no longer recommended is that the name of an accounting is
that it used the period (.) character to separate the group name from
the user name. Therefore, the syntax did not work if a user name
contained a period.

The name should not be qualified with a domain. Certain parts of the
HTCondor system do append the value $(UID\_DOMAIN) (as specified in the
configuration file on the submit machine) to this string for internal
use. For example, if the value of UID\_DOMAIN is example.com, and the
accounting group name is as specified, *condor\_userprio* will show
statistics for this accounting group using the appended domain, for
example

::

                                        Effective
     User Name                           Priority
     ------------------------------      ---------
     group_physics@example.com                0.50
     user@example.com                        23.11
     heavyuser@example.com                  111.13
     ...

Additionally, the *condor\_userprio* command allows administrators to
remove an entity from the accounting system in HTCondor. The **-delete**
option to *condor\_userprio* accomplishes this if all the jobs from a
given accounting group are completed, and the administrator wishes to
remove that group from the system. The **-delete** option identifies the
accounting group with the fully-qualified name of the accounting group.
For example

::

    condor_userprio -delete group_physics@example.com

HTCondor removes entities itself as they are no longer relevant.
Intervention by an administrator to delete entities can be beneficial
when the use of thousands of short term accounting groups leads to
scalability issues.

Accounting Groups with Hierarchical Group Quotas
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An upper limit on the number of slots allocated to a group of users can
be specified with group quotas. This policy may be desired when
different groups provide their computers to create one large HTCondor
pool, and want to restrict the number of jobs running from one group to
the number of machines the group has provided.

Consider an example pool with thirty slots: twenty slots are owned by
the physics group and ten are owned by the chemistry group. The desired
policy is that no more than twenty concurrent jobs are ever running from
the physicists, and only ten from the chemists. These machines are
otherwise identical, so it does not matter which machines run which
group’s jobs. It only matters that the proportions of allocated slots
are correct.

Instead of quotas, this could be implemented by configuring the RANK
expression such that the twenty machines owned by the physics group
prefer jobs submitted by the physics users. Likewise, the ten machines
owned by the chemistry group are configured to prefer jobs submitted by
the chemistry group. However, this steers jobs to execute on specific
machines, instead of the desired policy which allocates numbers of
machines, where these machines can be any of the pool’s machines that
are available.

Group quotas may implement this policy. Define the groups and set their
quotas in the configuration of the central manager:

::

      GROUP_NAMES = group_physics, group_chemistry
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics =   20
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_chemistry = 10

The implementation of quotas is hierarchical, such that quotas may be
described for the tree of groups, subgroups, sub subgroups, etc. Group
names identify the groups, such that the configuration can define the
quotas in terms of limiting the number of cores allocated for a group or
subgroup. Group names do not need to begin with "group\_", but that is
the convention, which helps to avoid naming conflicts between groups and
subgroups. The hierarchy is identified by using the period (’.’)
character to separate a group name from a subgroup name from a sub
subgroup name, etc. Group names are case-insensitive for negotiation.

At the root of the tree that defines the hierarchical groups is the
invented "<none>" group. The implied quota of the "<none>" group will be
all available slots. This string will appear in the output of
*condor\_status*.

If the sum of the child quotas exceeds the parent, then the child quotas
are scaled down in proportion to their relative sizes. For the given
example, there were 30 original slots at the root of the tree. If a
power failure removed half of the original 30, leaving fifteen slots,
physics would be scaled back to a quota of ten, and chemistry to five.
This scaling can be disabled by setting the *condor\_negotiator*
configuration variable NEGOTIATOR\_ALLOW\_QUOTA\_OVERSUBSCRIPTION to
True. If the sum of the child quotas is less than that of the parent,
the child quotas remain intact; they are not scaled up. That is, if
somehow the number of slots doubled from thirty to sixty, physics would
still be limited to 20 slots, and chemistry would be limited to 10. This
example in which the quota is defined by absolute values is called a
static quota.

Each job must state which group it belongs to. Currently this is opt-in,
and the system trusts each user to put the correct group in the submit
description file. Jobs that do not identify themselves as a group member
are negotiated for as part of the "<none>" group. Note that this
requirement is per job, not per user. A given user may be a member of
many groups. Jobs identify which group they are in by setting the
**accounting\_group** and **accounting\_group\_user** commands within
the submit description file, as specified in
section \ `3.6.7 <#x34-2390003.6.7>`__. For example:

::

    accounting_group = group_physics
     accounting_group_user = einstein

The size of the quotas may instead be expressed as a proportion. This is
then referred to as a dynamic group quota, because the size of the quota
is dynamically recalculated every negotiation cycle, based on the total
available size of the pool. Instead of using static quotas, this example
can be recast using dynamic quotas, with one-third of the pool allocated
to chemistry and two-thirds to physics. The quotas maintain this ratio
even as the size of the pool changes, perhaps because of machine
failures, because of the arrival of new machines within the pool, or
because of other reasons. The job submit description files remain the
same. Configuration on the central manager becomes:

::

      GROUP_NAMES = group_physics, group_chemistry
       GROUP_QUOTA_DYNAMIC_group_chemistry = 0.33
       GROUP_QUOTA_DYNAMIC_group_physics =   0.66

The values of the quotas must be less than 1.0, indicating fractions of
the pool’s machines. As with static quota specification, if the sum of
the children exceeds one, they are scaled down proportionally so that
their sum does equal 1.0. If their sum is less than one, they are not
changed.

Extending this example to incorporate subgroups, assume that the physics
group consists of high-energy (hep) and low-energy (lep) subgroups. The
high-energy sub-group owns fifteen of the twenty physics slots, and the
low-energy group owns the remainder. Groups are distinguished from
subgroups by an intervening period character (.) in the group’s name.
Static quotas for these subgroups extend the example configuration:

::

      GROUP_NAMES = group_physics, group_physics.hep, group_physics.lep, group_chemistry
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics     =   20
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics.hep =   15
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics.lep =    5
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_chemistry   =   10

This hierarchy may be more useful when dynamic quotas are used. Here is
the example, using dynamic quotas:

::

      GROUP_NAMES = group_physics, group_physics.hep, group_physics.lep, group_chemistry
       GROUP_QUOTA_DYNAMIC_group_chemistry   =   0.33334
       GROUP_QUOTA_DYNAMIC_group_physics     =   0.66667
       GROUP_QUOTA_DYNAMIC_group_physics.hep =   0.75
       GROUP_QUOTA_DYNAMIC_group_physics.lep =   0.25

The fraction of a subgroup’s quota is expressed with respect to its
parent group’s quota. That is, the high-energy physics subgroup is
allocated 75% of the 66% that physics gets of the entire pool, however
many that might be. If there are 30 machines in the pool, that would be
the same 15 machines as specified in the static quota example.

High-energy physics users indicate which group their jobs should go in
with the submit description file identification:

::

    accounting_group = group_physics.hep
     accounting_group_user = higgs

In all these examples so far, the hierarchy is merely a notational
convenience. Each of the examples could be implemented with a flat
structure, although it might be more confusing for the administrator.
Surplus is the concept that creates a true hierarchy.

If a given group or sub-group accepts surplus, then that given group is
allowed to exceed its configured quota, by using the leftover, unused
quota of other groups. Surplus is disabled for all groups by default.
Accepting surplus may be enabled for all groups by setting
GROUP\_ACCEPT\_SURPLUS to True. Surplus may be enabled for individual
groups by setting GROUP\_ACCEPT\_SURPLUS\_<groupname> to True. Consider
the following example:

::

      GROUP_NAMES = group_physics, group_physics.hep, group_physics.lep, group_chemistry
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics     =   20
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics.hep =   15
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_physics.lep =    5
       GROUP_QUOTA_group_chemistry   =   10
       GROUP_ACCEPT_SURPLUS = false
       GROUP_ACCEPT_SURPLUS_group_physics = false
       GROUP_ACCEPT_SURPLUS_group_physics.lep = true
       GROUP_ACCEPT_SURPLUS_group_physics.hep = true

This configuration is the same as above for the chemistry users.
However, GROUP\_ACCEPT\_SURPLUS is set to False globally, False for the
physics parent group, and True for the subgroups group\_physics.lep and
group\_physics.lep. This means that group\_physics.lep and
group\_physics.hep are allowed to exceed their quota of 15 and 5, but
their sum cannot exceed 20, for that is their parent’s quota. If the
group\_physics had GROUP\_ACCEPT\_SURPLUS set to True, then either
group\_physics.lep and group\_physics.hep would not be limited by quota.

Surplus slots are distributed bottom-up from within the quota tree. That
is, any leaf nodes of this tree with excess quota will share it with any
peers which accept surplus. Any subsequent excess will then be passed up
to the parent node and over to all of its children, recursively. Any
node that does not accept surplus implements a hard cap on the number of
slots that the sum of it’s children use.

After the *condor\_negotiator* calculates the quota assigned to each
group, possibly adding in surplus, it then negotiates with the
*condor\_schedd* daemons in the system to try to match jobs to each
group. It does this one group at a time. By default, it goes in
"starvation group order." That is, the group whose current usage is the
smallest fraction of its quota goes first, then the next, and so on. The
"<none>" group implicitly at the root of the tree goes last. This
ordering can be replaced by defining configuration variable
GROUP\_SORT\_EXPR . The *condor\_negotiator* evaluates this ClassAd
expression for each group ClassAd, sorts the groups by the floating
point result, and then negotiates with the smallest positive value going
first. Available attributes for sorting with GROUP\_SORT\_EXPR include:

--------------

Table 3.1: Attributes visible to GROUP\_SORT\_EXPR

--------------

--------------

Attribute Name

Description

--------------

--------------

--------------

--------------

AccountingGroup

A string containing the group name

--------------

--------------

GroupQuota

The computed limit for this group

--------------

--------------

GroupQuotaInUse

The total slot weight used by this group

--------------

--------------

GroupQuotaAllocated

Quota allocated this cycle

--------------

--------------

--------------

One possible group quota policy is strict priority. For example, a site
prefers physics users to match as many slots as they can, and only when
all the physics jobs are running, and idle slots remain, are chemistry
jobs allowed to run. The default "starvation group order" can be used to
implement this. By setting configuration variable
NEGOTIATOR\_ALLOW\_QUOTA\_OVERSUBSCRIPTION to True, and setting the
physics quota to a number so large that it cannot ever be met, such as
one million, the physics group will always be the "most starving" group,
will always negotiate first, and will always be unable to meet the
quota. Only when all the physics jobs are running will the chemistry
jobs then run. If the chemistry quota is set to a value smaller than
physics, but still larger than the pool, this policy can support a
third, even lower priority group, and so on.

The *condor\_userprio* command can show the current quotas in effect,
and the current usage by group. For example:

::

    $ condor_userprio -quotas
     Last Priority Update: 11/12 15:18
     Group                    Effective  Config     Use    Subtree  Requested
     Name                       Quota     Quota   Surplus   Quota   Resources
     ------------------------ --------- --------- ------- --------- ----------
     group_physics.hep            15.00     15.00 no          15.00         60
     group_physics.lep             5.00      5.00 no           5.00         60
     ------------------------ --------- --------- ------- --------- ----------
     Number of users: 2                                 ByQuota

This shows that there are two groups, each with 60 jobs in the queue.
group\_physics.hep has a quota of 15 machines, and group\_physics.lep
has 5 machines. Other options to *condor\_userprio*, such as **-most**
will also show the number of resources in use.

      

.. |πr(u,t) = β × πr(u,t- δt)+ (1- β)× ρ(u,t) | image:: ref1x.png
.. |π (u,t) = π (u,t)× f(u,t) e r | image:: ref2x.png
