      

condor\_preen
=============

remove extraneous files from HTCondor directories

Synopsis
^^^^^^^^

**condor\_preen** [**-mail**\ ] [**-remove**\ ] [**-verbose**\ ]
[**-debug**\ ]

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

*condor\_preen* examines the directories belonging to HTCondor, and
removes extraneous files and directories which may be left over from
HTCondor processes which terminated abnormally either due to internal
errors or a system crash. The directories checked are the LOG, EXECUTE,
and SPOOL directories as defined in the HTCondor configuration files.
*condor\_preen* is intended to be run as user root or user condor
periodically as a backup method to ensure reasonable file system
cleanliness in the face of errors. This is done automatically by default
by the *condor\_master* daemon. It may also be explicitly invoked on an
as needed basis.

When *condor\_preen* cleans the SPOOL directory, it always leaves behind
the files specified in the configuration variables VALID\_SPOOL\_FILES
and SYSTEM\_VALID\_SPOOL\_FILES , as given by the configuration. For the
LOG directory, the only files removed or reported are those listed
within the configuration variable INVALID\_LOG\_FILES list. The reason
for this difference is that, in general, the files in the LOG directory
ought to be left alone, with few exceptions. An example of exceptions
are core files. As there are new log files introduced regularly, it is
less effort to specify those that ought to be removed than those that
are not to be removed.

Options
^^^^^^^

 **-mail**
    Send mail to the user defined in the PREEN\_ADMIN configuration
    variable, instead of writing to the standard output.
 **-remove**
    Remove the offending files and directories rather than reporting on
    them.
 **-verbose**
    List all files found in the Condor directories, even those which are
    not considered extraneous.
 **-debug**
    Print extra debugging information as the command executes.

Exit Status
^^^^^^^^^^^

*condor\_preen* will exit with a status value of 0 (zero) upon success,
and it will exit with the value 1 (one) upon failure.

Author
^^^^^^

Center for High Throughput Computing, University of Wisconsin–Madison

Copyright
^^^^^^^^^

Copyright © 1990-2019 Center for High Throughput Computing, Computer
Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI. All
Rights Reserved. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

      
